DOCSP-34044: Add bitwise operators to aggregation pipeline (#253)
mongodb/docs-csharp: source/fundamentals/linq.txt

{+driver-short+}, see :atlas:`Run Vector Search Queries </atlas-vector-search/vector-search-stage/>`
in the Atlas manual and select :guilabel:`C#` from the language dropdown.

Bitwise Operators
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This version of the {+driver-short+} supports the following bitwise operators in 
the aggregation pipeline. You can use multiple bitwise operators within the same 
stage. All operands must be of type ``int`` or ``long``. ``$bitAnd``, ``$bitOr``,
and ``$bitXor`` all take two or more operands. ``$bitNot`` can only take one

> operand.

Reviewer: In this para, you could also briefly describe what a bitwise operator is by linking https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bitwise_operation

The examples for this section use the following documents in a collection called
``ingredients``:

.. code-block:: json

   { "_id": 1, "name": "watermelon", "price": 5, "count": 1 },
   { "_id": 2, "name": "onions", "price": 2, "count": 4 },
   { "_id": 3, "name": "eggs", "price": 5, "count": 12 },
   { "_id": 4, "name": "potatoes", "price": 3, "count": 0 },
   { "_id": 5, "name": "pasta", "price": 4, "count": 100 },
   { "_id": 6, "name": "cheese", "price": 4 }

The following ``Ingredient`` class models the documents in the ``ingredients``
collection:

.. code-block:: csharp

   public class Ingredient 
   {
      public int Id { get; set; }

      public string Name { get; set; }

      public int Price { get; set; }
      
      public int Count { get; set; }
   }

.. note::

   For all bitwise operators, if the operand list contains a missing or undefined
   value, the entire expression evaluates to ``null``.

$bitAnd
+++++++

The ``$bitAnd`` aggregation stage performs a bitwise AND operation on the given
arguments. The following example shows how to generate a ``$bitAnd`` stage using

> LINQ:

Reviewer: S: right now, it's not totally clear that by bitAnd you mean the **&** operator. Perhaps this paragraph could be preceded by a short sentence that says something like

> You can use the ``$bitAnd`` operator by connecting two or more clauses with a ``&`` character.

Applies to all sections

Author: added the suggested sentence after the first one since it flowed better that way in my opinion, but feel free to push back

.. code-block:: csharp

>     var query = queryableCollection.AsQueryable()

Reviewer: S: you access your collection and call `AsQueryable()` at that time, so i dont think its necessary to include here. 
Also, would it be possible to move these examples into a code file and use an include?

Author: thanks for catching this!

      .Where(i => i.Name == "eggs")
      .Select(i => i.Price & i.Count);

> The preceding example finds the document where the ``Name`` field has the value
> ``"eggs"``. It then performs a bitwise AND operation on the values of the 
> ``Price`` and ``Count`` fields in this document. The result contains one value:
> ``4``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The preceding example retrieves the document in which the ``Name`` field has the value
``"eggs"``. It then performs a bitwise AND operation on the values of the 
``Price`` and ``Count`` fields in this document, returning a value of ``4``.
```

The following example performs the same bitwise AND operation, but on all 
documents in the collection:

.. code-block:: csharp

    var query = queryableCollection.AsQueryable()
      .Select(i => i.Price & i.Count);

The result of the preceding example contains the following values:

.. code-block:: json

   1
   0
   4
   0
   4

>    null

Reviewer: S: you could combine these into an `io-code-block`

{+driver-short+}, see :atlas:`Run Vector Search Queries </atlas-vector-search/vector-search-stage/>`
in the Atlas manual and select :guilabel:`C#` from the language dropdown.

Bitwise Operators
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The following section describes the `bitwise operators <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bitwise_operation>`__ 

Reviewer: S: use wiki role
```suggestion
The following section describes the :wikipedia:`bitwise operators </Bitwise_operation>`
```
Full list: https://github.com/mongodb/snooty-parser/blob/5dab215d105fa01976c6521c356323725e137a9d/snooty/rstspec-consolidated.toml

supported by the {+driver-short+} that you can use in an aggregation pipeline.
You can use multiple bitwise operators in the same 
stage. The following guidelines apply when using bitwise operators:

- All operands must be of type ``int`` or ``long``.

> - ``$bitAnd``, ``$bitOr``, and ``$bitXor`` all take two or more operands. ``$bitNot`` can only take one operand.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ``$bitAnd``, ``$bitOr``, and ``$bitXor`` take two or more operands. ``$bitNot`` takes one operand.
```

> - The bitwise operation will be evaluated from left to right.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Bitwise operations are evaluated from left to right.
```

The examples for this section use the following documents in a collection called
``ingredients``:

.. code-block:: json

   { "_id": 1, "name": "watermelon", "price": 5, "count": 1 },
   { "_id": 2, "name": "onions", "price": 2, "count": 4 },
   { "_id": 3, "name": "eggs", "price": 5, "count": 12 },
   { "_id": 4, "name": "potatoes", "price": 3, "count": 0 },
   { "_id": 5, "name": "pasta", "price": 4, "count": 100 },
   { "_id": 6, "name": "cheese", "price": 4 }

The following ``Ingredient`` class models the documents in the ``ingredients``
collection:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-examples/linq.cs
   :language: csharp
   :dedent:
   :start-after: start-ingredient-model
   :end-before: end-ingredient-model

.. note:: Missing or Undefined Operands

   If the operand list you pass to any bitwise operator contains a missing or 
   undefined value, the entire expression evaluates to ``null``.

$bitAnd
+++++++

The ``$bitAnd`` aggregation operator performs a bitwise AND operation on the given
arguments. You can use the ``$bitAnd`` operator by connecting two or more 
clauses with a ``&`` character. The following example shows how to create a 

> ``$bitAnd`` stage using LINQ: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``$bitAnd`` stage by using LINQ: 
```

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-examples/linq.cs
   :language: csharp
   :dedent:
   :start-after: start-bitAnd-example
   :end-before: end-bitAnd-example

The preceding example retrieves the document in which the ``Name`` field has the 
value ``"eggs"``. It then performs a bitwise AND operation on the values of the 

> ``Price`` and ``Count`` fields in this document, returning a value of ``4``.

Reviewer: S; move this to before the code example and only keep the result after the example
eg. 
The following code example retrieves the document, then performs a bitwise AND... : 

code

The preceding code returns ``4``, the result of the AND operation on the values ... and ...

Reviewer: applies to all sections

{+driver-short+}, see :atlas:`Run Vector Search Queries </atlas-vector-search/vector-search-stage/>`
in the Atlas manual and select :guilabel:`C#` from the language dropdown.

Bitwise Operators
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The following section describes the :wikipedia:`bitwise operators </Bitwise_operation>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section describes the :wikipedia:`bitwise operators <Bitwise_operation>`
```

Reviewer: got the wiki syntax wrong when i first suggested, sry

supported by the {+driver-short+} that you can use in an aggregation pipeline.
You can use multiple bitwise operators in the same 
stage. The following guidelines apply when using bitwise operators:

- All operands must be of type ``int`` or ``long``.

- ``$bitAnd``, ``$bitOr``, and ``$bitXor`` take two or more operands. ``$bitNot`` takes one operand.

- Bitwise operations are evaluated from left to right.

> The examples for this section use the following documents in a collection called

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The examples in this section use the following documents in a collection called
```

``ingredients``:

.. code-block:: json

   { "_id": 1, "name": "watermelon", "price": 5, "count": 1 },
   { "_id": 2, "name": "onions", "price": 2, "count": 4 },
   { "_id": 3, "name": "eggs", "price": 5, "count": 12 },
   { "_id": 4, "name": "potatoes", "price": 3, "count": 0 },
   { "_id": 5, "name": "pasta", "price": 4, "count": 100 },

>    { "_id": 6, "name": "cheese", "price": 4 }

Reviewer 2: This final document can't have been created using the `Ingredient` POCO because `Count` is an `int` and can't be `null`.

Also, the element names in these sample documents don't match the field names in the POCO (the C# properties start with a capital letter).

Author: The data types used in the example have been changed to be nullable.

As for the second point, for these examples we use a convention pack (see the bottom of the [Overview section](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/drivers/csharp/current/fundamentals/linq/) on this page) to convert snake case field names into Pascal case.

Reviewer 2: It's hard to tell from looking at just this PR that there is a convention somewhere else that is mapping the property names. That's confusing.

The following ``Ingredient`` class models the documents in the ``ingredients``
collection:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-examples/linq.cs
   :language: csharp
   :dedent:
   :start-after: start-ingredient-model
   :end-before: end-ingredient-model

.. note:: Missing or Undefined Operands

   If the operand list you pass to any bitwise operator contains a missing or 

>    undefined value, the entire expression evaluates to ``null``.

Reviewer 2: This is true server-side, but in C# this isn't true unless you are using "nullable" integers.

In these examples if either `Price` or `Count` is `null` the query will fail client-side while deserializing the results.

Author: Clarified the note, please take a look!

$bitAnd
+++++++

The ``$bitAnd`` aggregation operator performs a bitwise AND operation on the given
arguments. You can use the ``$bitAnd`` operator by connecting two or more 
clauses with a ``&`` character. 

The following example shows how to create a ``$bitAnd`` stage by using LINQ. The
code retrieves the document in which the ``Name`` field has the 
value ``"eggs"``. It then performs a bitwise AND operation on the values of the 
``Price`` and ``Count`` fields in this document.

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-examples/linq.cs
   :language: csharp
   :dedent:
   :start-after: start-bitAnd-example
   :end-before: end-bitAnd-example

The preceding code returns ``4``, the result of the AND operation on the values
of the ``Price`` field (``5``) and the ``Count`` field (``12``).

> The following example performs the same bitwise AND operation, but on all 
> documents in the collection:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example performs the same bitwise AND operation as in the preceding code on all 
documents in the collection:
```

.. io-code-block::
   :copyable: true

   .. input:: /includes/fundamentals/code-examples/linq.cs
      :language: csharp
      :dedent:
      :start-after: start-bitAnd-collection-example
      :end-before: end-bitAnd-collection-example

   .. output::
      :language: json
      :visible: false

      1
      0
      4
      0
      4
      null

The ``null`` result comes from the document where the ``Name`` field
has the value of ``"cheese"``. This document is missing a ``Count`` field, so

> the expression evaluates to ``null``.

Reviewer 2: Have you tried to execute this?

I think it will throw an exception because the `null` can't be deserialized to an `int` client-side.

Author: All examples in this PR have been executed.

code retrieves the document in which the ``Name`` field has the 
value ``"eggs"``. It then performs a bitwise OR operation on the values of the 
``Price`` and ``Count`` fields in this document.

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-examples/linq.cs
   :language: csharp
   :dedent:
   :start-after: start-bitOr-example
   :end-before: end-bitOr-example

The preceding code returns ``13``, the result of the OR operation on the values
of the ``Price`` field (``5``) and the ``Count`` field (``12``).

$bitNot
+++++++

The ``$bitNot`` aggregation operator performs a bitwise NOT operation on the given
argument. You can use the ``$bitNot`` operator by preceding an 
operand with a ``~`` character. ``$bitNot`` only takes one argument. The 
following example shows how to create a ``$bitNot`` stage by using LINQ:

.. io-code-block::
   :copyable: true

   .. input:: /includes/fundamentals/code-examples/linq.cs
      :language: csharp
      :dedent:
      :start-after: start-bitNot-example
      :end-before: end-bitNot-example

   .. output:: 
      :language: json
      :visible: false

      -2
      -5
      -13
      -5
      -101

>       null

Reviewer 2: `null` is not a possible result. It should throw an exception when deserializing the results.
